Subtitle Provide by dramacool.asia Translator [Admin.@YNG]
[The Guardians]
[Episode 2]
Mr. Takeda,
[Chaosheng Theatre]
This way.
[Director Zhang, Municipal Council]
What a surprise!
Hi, Mr. Zhang.
Hello.
Nice to see you.
It's been so long.
Wish the performance a success.
Welcome, welcome.
Good afternoon.
Hey, nice to see you.
[Manager Ma, Municipal Council]
You're so beautiful.
Have a nice day.
You too.
Hi, Ms. Ma.
Hello, Ms. Xian.
Please have a seat.
They're all old friends
from the Municipal Council.
Maybe someday,
the Empire of Japan
will take over the Municipal Council
and run the Public Concession.
When that happens,
Ms. Xian, I hope
you'll show me the same kindness.
Mr. Takeda, you're joking.
I'm hardly that influential.
In this Concession,
luck always comes and goes.
It's just like a play on stage,
you always need the understudies ready
in case something happens.
If there's food, everyone eats.
Wouldn't you agree?
Only those without scars
will mock someone else's pain.
Look, what's shining in that window?
[Long Er, actor, Chaosheng Troupe]
We're all actors.
We can't hide anyone here.
What's shining in that window?
Where's Juliet?
Move, please.
Hongyu should go first.
Sir, check me first, I need to perform.
Let the sun rise.
Beautiful sun, show yourself.
Chase away that envious moon.
Keep the show going.
Shh.
Don't break character, it's risky.
Close the door.
Her...
Her student is prettier than she is.
Sir, we're running out of time.
Sir, I'm begging you.
I need to get on stage soon.
Why is it still dark?
Romeo!
Is she speaking?
[Hongyu, actor, Chaosheng Troupe]
Romeo!
She...
is speaking.
Ah.
Blood.
It's flowing out.
Still has a scent.
No one found over there.
Mr. Takeda.
Is the search done?
The play's not over yet.
I'll watch a bit longer.
Long Er.
Come here, quick.
Long Er!
Look back!
Outside the tree, it's bleeding.
It's not easy to climb up here.
Look down.
Saw you hanging out here.
They won't let you walk away.
Get ready for a fight scene.
You're running wild with Romeo again.
We're singing.
If they want,
let them see, I don't care.
Enough talk, just stab.
I'm not happy just for them.
Look at you
this time...
Stand still, don't move.
Alright.
The one I'm looking for is here.
He may not be your sidekick,
but if you start running...
No need to run. Right here!
You can't change Shakespeare's script.
Now, die.
Blood!
Romeo!
Would you let go of that grudge
and run away with me?
I would!
Bravo!
Romeo.
Juliet.
We're finally together.
Let's dance together now.
Bravo!
Mr. Takeda.
We saw it with our own eyes.
The blood trail leads here.
Here?
That's right.
Their car's still in the alley.
Hey, Kondo.
Yes.
Where is the car?
Afu, you guys go ahead.
Alright.
Mr. Wu, Mr. Wu.
What's going on?
That tree...
Stop asking so much.
Don't ask anymore!
Step back.
Come out.
Come out!
Congrats on the show, everyone.
Sir,
it was urgent just now.
I pointed a gun at you.
Sorry.
But,
your quick reaction just now...
Hongyu, what are you doing?
He got us in trouble.
Bro, you can't die on me.
If you die, I...
Stay with me.
What will I do if you're gone?
Take care of the body.
Wait till later tonight.
Don't let anyone see.
Scared?
Then I'll send someone else.
Not scared.
I'll do it.
Tie both of them up.
Take them to the basement.
Alright.
Okay.
Once this mess is cleaned up,
I'll question them myself.
Alright.
Wake up.
You'll never crack my cipher.
Let's reveal the answer in hell.
My... cipher
will haunt you
for...
the rest of
your life.
When did you wake up?
You really scared me.
Thank goodness, really.
Glad you woke up.
Come on, get up.
Tell me,
where's the antidote?
My hands and feet are numb now.
Feels like poison's everywhere.
Give me the antidote, quick.
Who bandaged me up?
Ms. Xian told them to help you.
Our troupe
only had one dose of sulfa left
and we gave it all to you.
See how well we treated you.
Now we're even, right?
Hurry, give me the antidote.
We're running out of time.
Tell her thank you for me.
Wait, stop messing around.
Come on, just hand over the antidote.
I was lying to you.
That wasn't a needle.
It was a cufflink.
Poison?
Just kidding.
Ding Yi.
Hey, Hongyu,
any news?
What did Ms. Xian say?
You're in big trouble now.
What are you doing?
Ms. Xian tied me up. You dared untie it?
It's safer to keep it tied.
Yeah.
Hey, miss.
Did you knock me out earlier?
Ding Yi, you must be hungry.
Sir,
want to have one too?
I'll skip it for now.
What time is it?
It's past midnight.
Do you have a phone here?
Yeah.
What's up?
Could you help me out?
I'll give you a number.
Can you call it for me?
Tell the person who answers,
get to customs before sunrise
set up a British passport record,
use my photo for it,
and name it as Charlie Gu.
There's a phone, yes.
It's in Biyun's office.
Right.
I need her okay first.
That's true.
Listen,
if you're any slower,
Ding Yi won't make it.
He told the Japanese I'm his assistant
who just got back to China.
The Japanese will check for sure.
Wait any longer and it's too late.
The Cipher Section Manager of MSS
was here.
Ding Yi's really made a scene.
We need to tell them
what happened today.
Alright.
I'll leave as soon as it's light out.
As for the one with Ding Yi,
Biyun!
How many times have I told you,
knock before you come in.
Why can't you ever remember?
Sorry, Mr. Wu.
Biyun, can I use the phone?
It's so late.
The basement.
Ding Yi's friend asked me to call.
He needs help with a passport.
The Japanese will check it.
Where does he want to call?
He didn't say.
He only said,
if it's late, we'll miss our chance.
[Changze Shipyard]
Changze Shipyard.
I'm just trying to help you.
Sorry,
I messed it up.
Why are you laughing?
I haven't eaten
all day.
It's all because of you.
I finally get it now,
you were sent to mess up my life,
right?
I'm laughing
because your acting is good.
Look at you right now.
You're nothing like you were
with the Japanese.
Your performance was spot on.
That's what I like to hear.
It's true.
I'm a professional actor.
You're that confident in your skills?
Of course I am.
Let me put it this way,
everyone in Shanghai calls me
Chaplin from Gordon Road, Shanghai.
I, Ding Yi, have three talents,
people skills, mimicry, and memory.
Hand me any script you like.
I'll memorize it right away.
Bring anyone in front of me.
I'll imitate them in no time.
So how about this,
I won't take your job away.
I'll actually offer you one.
I'll give you a role.
You'll be the lead role.
So, feeling confident?
What do you mean?
I mean,
just keep imitating Joseph Lee,
keep playing as him.
I won't.
You already said,
Joseph is a traitor.
I'm not a traitor.
Look,
you helped him before,
and gave lessons to the Japanese.
That does look suspicious, you know.
But I'm different.
I'm with the Anti-Traitor Squad.
If you help me,
you'll be helping us out.
Still, I won't act in it.
How much did the Japanese pay you?
Your pay won't be touched.
On top of that,
I'll double your pay.
That's still not enough.
Well, Ding Yi,
if the Japanese ever found out
that the real Joseph Lee is dead,
and the fake one is in Chaosheng Troupe,
what do you think they'd do?
Gu!
You can mess with me,
but don't mess with my troupe.
He's one of us.
No one can force him.
Ms. Xian,
if the Japanese find out,
the person they're searching for
died on your turf,
what do you think they'll do?
Then I could toss you
in the Huangpu river.
No one would know what happened here.
Ms. Xian, you wouldn't.
Why wouldn't I?
Kindness.
I don't care who you are.
If you want to pick on my people,
you have to
get through me first.
Ms. Xian,
I always thought I was the burden here.
Didn't expect you...
Get lost.
No, Ms. Xian,
that person is too dangerous.
I have to stay and protect you.
Explain how you took side jobs,
give every detail to Uncle Wu.
Also,
hand over all your side job earnings,
then I'll decide
if you get a second chance.
Leave now.
Got it, got it.
I'm leaving right now.
I'm going, okay?
Now we can talk in private.
Who was that dead person?
Hey, calm down.
I can tell you,
but before that,
you have to tell me something too.
How did you deal with
the body and the car?
Captain Kobayashi, they're here.
There must be
something off about that box.
Hey man,
give me a hand.
What's inside?
Don't move!
Don't move.
Go take a look.
What are you doing?
We're checking the costumes.
Sir,
these are all our stage outfits.
That's everything they have.
Ms. Xian, you truly have skills.
Surviving these times,
you need to look out for yourself.
But honestly, this mess is on me.
I could've just sent my team.
But I don't trust your people.
Ms. Xian, no need
to shut people out.
We're facing a real threat,
yet you stay cool under pressure.
And you handle a gun well.
You must have your own motives.
I think we'll have more chances
to work together.
If you want to work with me,
start by telling me,
who was the person I took care of?
And also,
who exactly are you?
Sure.
My last name is Gu.
Gu Yangshan.
Just got back from studying abroad.
The one who died was Joseph Lee.
He was my classmate.
At first, I thought,
if the offer was good enough,
maybe I could win you over.
But now, that's just impossible.
But Joseph Lee,
if you still work for the Japanese,
and keep being a traitor,
then I guess,
we'll just keep it professional.
Traitor?
Bro,
I need to clear something up.
Honestly, I know nothing.
I was just helping him
teach Japanese businessmen.
I just wanted to make money.
I'm not a traitor, really.
Careful, it's hot.
Told you.
Ding Yi,
you...
Are you okay?
I'm good.
Really.
I've seen it all, trust me.
This is nothing for me.
Not at all.
Don't worry.
But you can't do this again.
Tonight was way too risky.
It's not like the old days.
Were you scared of going hungry?
I just wanted to earn a bit more.
Don't worry, I'll listen to you.
I won't do this anymore.
Good thing Ms. Xian was here.
I wonder
how she's handling it now.
Don't worry.
Ms. Xian can handle anything.
No trouble she can't fix.
Right?
Yeah.
Here.
Have some.
Okay.
Eat more.
I've eaten them all.
All gone.
I left nothing for you.
That's fine, don't worry.
[Gu, foreman, Changze Shipyard]
My surname is Gu.
I'm the foreman at Changze Shipyard.
I'm here to find Mr. Gu.
So, from this situation,
we draw two conclusions.
First, Ding Yi really did a great job.
He managed to fool the Japanese.
Second,
Joseph Lee is key
to the Japanese.
So, what do you want Ding Yi to do?
Ms. Xian,
we're not working together yet.
Since you won't be upfront,
I guess we're not on the same page.
Mr. Gu,
you should head out.
Got it.
Looks like
you're not afraid to upset the Japanese.
Lots of things happened here tonight.
But if you keep quiet,
how would the Japanese ever know?
Ms. Xian, sorry to interrupt,
Mr. Gu is here.
He said he was looking for Mr. Gu.
Mr. Gu.
Everything you asked for is ready.
I'm here to pick you up.
Alright.
Ms. Xian,
I'll repay
your kindness someday.
And I hope you'll think over
my suggestion for you,
[Chaosheng Theatre]
Douzi, Nizi,
come down and eat.
Okay.
Lunch's ready.
Ms. Chen,
I finished this cloth for you.
Let me help you pack it.
Mind your step.
Got you.
Haven't washed
your hands, right?
Let's go.
Song,
how's your leg feeling now?
Much better.
Really.
Fresh Chinese Pancake coming up,
[Aunt Sufen, Stage Manager, Chaosheng Troupe]
Here,
take an egg.
Thanks, Mr. Wu.
Zhao Fu,
yesterday,
why were those Japanese here?
Just a bunch of wild folks.
They ruined a great show.
No respect for the arts at all.
Yeah.
Aunt, rice ball.
What's Ms. Xian doing over there?
Seems they're with Long Er,
checking things in the Props Storage.
Do you want to go help out?
No.
If you want to go, go yourself.
Knew you wouldn't dare.
Ms. Xian isn't here yet.
Why are you in such a rush?
What are you doing?
They're kids.
No one should let kids go hungry.
Sufen,
grab two pancakes.
Let them eat at the small table.
Okay.
Go, go, head over there.
I'll get you some eggs.
Liu,
don't forget to fix the broken vase.
Careful not to hurt Hongyu with it.
Biyun.
Everyone's waiting for you.
Why wait for me?
They...
Let's eat.
Alright.
Dig in.
Time to eat.
Hurry up.
Come on, let's get moving.
Go ahead.
Anyone need chopsticks?
Pass them over there.
Who needs chopsticks?
Here.
Song.
Stop washing, come eat.
Got it.
Fried youtiao.
Large pan-fried buns, piping hot.
Come here.
Ms. Xian.
About those Japanese yesterday...
Just eat and drink as usual.
Why are you even worried about this?
Eat your food.
Stop overthinking.
Just eat.
Even food can't keep you quiet.
- Eat up.
- Come on, eat.
Let's eat.
Nizi,
come here.
Do you want some eggs?
Yes, I do.
Mom Xian,
you didn't sleep with me last night.
I'll stay with you tonight.
I'll tell you a story.
Douzi,
come here.
Here.
Have an egg.
Thanks.
Ms. Xian,
thank you.
From now on, my life is yours.
You can do what you want with it.
You reckless kid,
do you realize
how much trouble you've caused Ms. Xian?
Huh?
Because of you,
the whole troupe almost died.
Did you really think those Japanese
were just businessmen?
They're agents from the MSS of Japan.
Takeda.
He's the Manager
of the Cipher Section of MSS.
You know that?
What's the MSS?
You...
It's a Japanese secret service
in Shanghai.
You know what working for them means,
right?
I didn't know.
I was tricked too.
I honestly thought
I was just hired as a stand-in
to teach some math classes.
I had no idea about anything else.
Plus, lately,
the troupe has no role for me.
I figured if I'm doing nothing,
I might as well earn some pocket money.
Looks like the troupe failed you.
Not really.
Now the Japanese are watching us.
It's dangerous for him to stay.
How about this,
pack up your things,
and get going now.
Ms. Xian,
I know I was wrong.
I really get it now.
Please, don't send me away.
In Shanghai,
I don't know anyone but you.
Once I leave the troupe,
where am I supposed to go?
How about this,
I'll move back
to the basement.
I promise I won't step out.
And I...
Not necessary.
Long Er!
Ms. Xian, you wanted me?
Take him to the train station,
send him to Baimahu to find his mom.
Ms. Xian.
Ms. Xian, don't worry.
I'll handle this for you.
I'll make sure he's sent far away.
Ms. Xian!
Let's go.
Close the door.
That kid...
He's actually kind of pitiful.
He really can't leave the troupe.
Biyun.
What...
Let Long Er give this money
to Ding Yi's mom.
If he stays,
it'll just get messier.
Also,
any reply from him yet?
Who exactly is Gu Yangshan?
[Shanghai Xinfu Flour Company]
Young Master.
A Chongqing-based commissioner is here.
Since Joseph Lee is gone,
I'm afraid
this won't be easy to explain.
We can't crack Joseph Lee's cipher.
How do I answer the troops at the front?
Uncle Gu.
Metropolitan Hotel.
Room 424.
I'll go tidy up.
Take your time.
[Xinfu Flour Company
Shanghai BIS]
Chief.
You're here.
[Cao Yuanzhong, Acting Chief,
Shanghai BIS]
Why call me Chief?
I'm just an Acting Chief.
Let me introduce you.
This is the commissioner from Chongqing.
Oh,
you keep coughing and sniffling.
This spot wasn't the best pick.
Maybe it's just allergies,
try some of this.
It'll clear your head.
The conditions here are rough.
Our exit route is blocked.
Who chose this spot for the intel post?
It was me.
I picked this place.
There are advantages, though.
If the dust gets thick enough,
all it takes is a single match,
and all the intel here
can be wiped out in seconds.
Right.
[Luo Han,
Military Intelligence Commissioner]
Director Dai asked me to check
on MSS's Radio Station.
How much intel
have you intercepted so far?
Commissioner Luo, you may not know this,
this cipher was created by Joseph Lee,
as a token of loyalty to the Japanese.
He poured his life's work into it.
So the usual frequency analysis
and exhaustive key search
won't work at all on this cipher.
Even if you brought every expert
in the world here right now,
no one could crack it quickly.
Not to mention,
the cryptography experts in Chongqing.
So
you're not afraid to try,
but you're refusing orders, right?
Commissioner Luo,
that's a bit harsh.
How could we refuse orders?
Actually, we do have an idea.
Yangshan.
Let Commissioner Luo know
about our attempt to persuade Joseph.
Joseph Lee is
Japan's cryptography expert.
He refused to cooperate.
During the transfer,
he died.
What?
He died?
Yangshan,
how many times have I told you,
not to act on your own?
Look at where we are now.
Did I want to play hero?
I reported to you in advance.
Did you send anyone?
If I had some backup,
Joseph Lee wouldn't have...
Chairman Chiang always reminds us,
"Bound by devotion".
Is this your idea of "bound by devotion,
together we prevail"?
Commissioner Luo,
you just arrived in Shanghai,
so about what you mentioned earlier,
about your group,
you don't really know enough.
Even though for now,
we can't crack the enemy's cipher,
I actually have a way
to make them switch cipher..
Getting the Japanese to change
the world's most advanced cipher system.
Are you crazy?
I definitely can't do it right away,
but there's someone else
who might be able.
Ms. Xian!
I know I messed up.
Please don't give up on me!
Let go, please!
Stop shouting.
If you keep stalling,
we'll miss the train!
Did you just kick me?
This Luban Lock is from my mom.
If it's broken,
can you even pay for it?
Aren't you a grown-up?
Still playing with toys?
Are you still a baby?
Mind your own business.
No way.
Why not?
Use Takeda's trust in Joseph Lee,
let Ding Yi convince Takeda,
make him think the cipher's leaked,
then have him change it himself.
That's the fastest plan I have.
But this guy isn't Joseph Lee.
Joseph Lee is already gone.
Anyone who knows Joseph Lee
could easily see through this lie.
Commissioner Luo,
you don't know Joseph Lee.
Joseph Lee was born in the UK
and grew up in the UK.
Spent most of his life buried in books.
So before he came back,
the only Chinese who knew him
was me.
But as far as I know,
Joseph Lee returned
quite some time ago already.
Didn't he ever show up in public?
Actually, he never did.
Because he knew working for the Japanese
could put his life at risk.
So over the past few months,
he never appeared publicly at all.
He didn't even allow
the hotel's cleaning staff
to enter his room.
So most people believe,
Ding Yi is the real Joseph Lee.
Excuse me.
Commissioner Luo,
can I say something here?
Honestly, I think,
this plan might be worth a shot.
The catch is, Ding Yi isn't our guy.
If the plan fails,
it's just cannon fodder lost.
It won't affect us at all.
But if it works out,
this could turn everything around.
It's a smart move.
It's the perfect chance to win big,
a great opportunity for us.
Why not give it a try?
Right hand, right hand.
Which side? This side?
Yeah, this way.
Move up a bit.
Is Xian Biyun really that impressive?
She started at sixteen
and began playing maids.
Now she's a top name in Shanghai.
But she chose to retire at her peak.
After her retirement from acting,
she formed the Chaosheng Troupe.
People are still guessing
why she did it.
Does she have support behind the scenes?
I've looked into
all her film investors early on.
Their backgrounds are different.
There's no pattern to it.
This troupe runs only
on its own revenue.
It's straightforward and clean.
Can we go in and have a look?
Young Master,
this is the Public Concession.
Xian Biyun knows everyone
at the Municipal Council.
Every time she performs,
a lot of foreigners come to watch.
That's why Takeda won't mess
with her shows.
Perfect.
Fine.
If force doesn't work,
we'll play it smart.
She's a woman,
and over twenty people rely on her.
She may not have any weaknesses,
but she must have her troubles.
Bless Chaosheng Troupe with full houses.
Full houses every show.
Ms. Xian.
You're back.
Here's our encore performance poster.
Let's go.
[Romeo and Juliet; Encore Date: June 23]
I've got a plan.
Help me find some people.
♪Flames dancing alone♪
♪Broken candle wax♪
♪Holding onto the warmth♪
♪Eyes tinted red with light♪
♪Flickering dimness♪
♪A lonely little lamp♪
♪Flowers cradle morning dew♪
♪Cracked skin♪
♪Turns back into earth♪
♪When the sun rises♪
♪That very first light♪
♪Will dance for me♪
♪Home lost in the mist♪
♪Nowhere to go♪
♪And nowhere to retreat♪
♪I swallowed the pain again♪
♪A real life or a play?♪
♪It's hard to tell♪
♪Where does the wind go?♪
♪Whose window does it shake?♪
♪It whispers softly♪
♪It rustles in my heart♪
♪Maybe you or maybe me♪
♪Caught in the sorrow♪
♪Someone keeps the watch♪
♪On the vast plains♪
♪Tears gently fall♪
♪Cracked wounds linger on♪
♪Someone keeps the watch♪
♪Wandering in the shadows♪
♪Nightfall closes in♪
♪When we turn back, dawn appears♪
♪Someone keeps the watch♪
♪On the vast plains♪
♪Tears gently fall♪
♪Cracked wounds linger on♪
♪Someone keeps the watch♪
♪Wandering in the shadows♪
♪Nightfall closes in♪
♪When we turn back, dawn appears♪